h1. Events

* "Use the Tools wizard":/ds/nodes/dmc/tools/#data_types=events
* "Learn about the types of event data IRIS archives":/ds/nodes/dmc/data/types/events

h2. Tools for browsing and requesting data

h2. Wilber3

A web interface for searching for, and requesting, waveform data via "IRIS web-services":/. Data is delivered in SEED, miniSEED, SAC binary or SAC ASCII files. "Read More »":/wilber3/

h2. Searchable Product Depository (SPUD)

The _Searchable Product Depository_ (SPUD) is the IRIS DMC's primary data product management system. Complementing the DMC's SEED and assembled data archives, which contain time series recordings, the SPUD system primarily contains derivative data products of other types (images, movies, etc.) created either at the DMC or by members of the community. "Access SPUD »":/spud/

h2. JWEED

_JWEED_ is a map-based seismogram request tool. It enables the user to select events and stations and then download the data to their computer. JWEED is platform-independent and allows the user to access information from remote data centers, using the "IRIS Web Services":/ws/, and from local file sources that the user has generated and downloaded. "Read More »":/ds/nodes/dmc/manuals/jweed/

h2. SeismiQuery

_SeismiQuery_ is the web interface to our Oracle database. SeismiQuery is made up of several search utilities, including one that allows the user to create station and event files. Users are encouraged to search the database before making a request in order in ensure that we have the data of interest. "Read More »":/SeismiQuery/