h1. Introduction to EarthScope waveform data

h2. Overview

The primary data archive at EarthScope consists of several thousand continuous data streams (or "channels") of seismic and other data.

EarthScope generally does not produce or own the data in this archive, its primary role is to archive data on behalf of other organizations, and provide a central source for distribution.

h3. Data channel naming

To illustrate the structure of this data, consider "a single channel of data":http://ds.iris.edu/mda/CU/TGUH/00/BHZ: @CU.TGUH.00.BHZ@

The channel identifier consists of 4 parts:

@CU@ : *Network* -- this reflects the top-level organization managing the instrument. CU is the code for the "Caribbean USGS Network":http://www.fdsn.org/networks/detail/CU/, jointly operated by the Albuquerque Seismological Laboratory (ASL) and the US Geological Survey (USGS).

@TGUH@ : *Station* -- the physical site of the instrument. TGUH is the code for a station in Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

@00@ : *Location* -- this is an arbitrary code identifying a particular instrument on site. The "TGUH station":http://ds.iris.edu/mda/CU/TGUH, for example, operates two instruments which it assigns 2 different codes: 00 is a Streckeisen STS-2, and 20 is a Kinemetrics FBA ES-T EpiSensor Accelerometer.

@BHZ@ : *Channel* -- this identifies a single stream of data. A 3-axis seismometer will generate 3 channels of data, one for each axis. This particular instrument also produces both high- and low-gain data, yielding 6 channels: BH1, BH2, BHZ, LH1, LH2, LHZ. The channel code usually follows "conventions indicating the type and orientation of the measurement":http://ds.iris.edu/ds/nodes/dmc/data/formats/seed-channel-naming/.

h3. Data is continuous

Instruments operate continuously over an *Epoch*.  In the "example above":http://ds.iris.edu/mda/CU/TGUH/00/BHZ the current epoch began on 2010/06/02. 

In other words, the "native" format for a data channel is a single record spanning years or even decades.

This is important to understand when using tools that provide "datasets" associated with an event or other time window. These time windows are generated by the tools themselves, as far as the archive is concerned these are completely arbitrary.

h3. Data is raw and unprocessed

Data is stored in miniSEED format, and reflects the raw data as recorded by the instrument. In order to derive meaningful information (eg. meters/second of ground motion) this data must be processed in combination with metadata about the instrument itself.

h3. Non-seismic data

The archive contains more than just seismometer data. Other data types include tilt, creep, pressure, magnetic field, humidity and temperature.

Even within the seismometer data, there are a variety of instrument types (eg. gravimeters, accelerometers) and sample rates.

h2. Practical guide to requesting data

The scale and heterogeneity of the archive means that every request for data is a request for a very small subset of the archive. So making a request primarily involves defining exactly which subset.

In particular, requests should almost always include:

# A set of networks/stations
# A set of data channels
# A time window

For example:

(This request returns a list of channels, but the basic filters are the same for requesting data)
"$":http://service.iris.edu/fdsnws/station/1/query?net=IU,II&cha=BH?&starttime=2018-01-01T00:00:00&endtime=2018-01-01T01:00:00&level=channel&format=text&includecomments=true&nodata=404

@net=IU,II@ : all stations from the IU and II networks
@cha=BH?@ : all [*B*]roadband [*H*]igh-gain channels (*?* = all orientations)
@starttime=2018-01-01T00:00:00&endtime=2018-01-01T01:00:00@ : between midnight and 1am UTC on 2018-01-01

h3. Event-oriented data

One common task is to request data associated with an earthquake or other event. Tools like "Wilber":/wilber/ and "PyWEED":https://iris-edu.github.io/pyweed/ do this by loading a (separate) list of events, then using the time (and optionally location) of an event to define the time window for each channel in a data request.

(Wilber and PyWEED also handle downloading the relevant station metadata, described below.)

h3. Metadata

Any data request should be accompanied by a request for the corresponding metadata. For example, in order to properly parse data for the channel CU.TGUH.00.BHZ, you would need something like this:

"$":http://service.iris.edu/irisws/sacpz/1/query?net=CU&sta=TGUH&loc=00&cha=BHZ

in order to translate the raw data into accurate ground movement.

Metadata is separated from the raw instrument data because it's not empirical data, merely a suggestion about how to interpret it.
