h1. Seismic Data Sources

h2(#perm). Permanent Networks

Permanent networks provide "passive":/ds/nodes/dmc/data/types/time-series-data/ data only.

h3. Global Seismographic Network 

The EarthScope Global Seismographic Network (GSN) is one of the four major components of EarthScope Consortium. The goal of the GSN is to deploy 128 permanent seismic recording stations uniformly over the earth's surface. 

"Learn more about the GSN":http://www.iris.edu/hq/programs/gsn.
 	 
h3. FDSN

The "International Federation of Digital Seismograph Networks":http://www.fdsn.org (FDSN) is a global organization. Its members are responsible for the installation and maintenance of broad-band seismographs either within their geographic borders or globally.
 
"List of Permanent FDSN Network Codes":http://www.iris.edu/mda/#pnetlist
"Request a permanent FDSN Network Code":http://www.fdsn.org/forms/netcode_perm.htm
Data "shipment statistics":/data/distribution/ for FDSN and other data
 	 
h3. Regional Networks

Several regional networks contribute data to the EarthScope archive or have open access to their data sets. 

"Listing of regional network data":/mda/_US-REGIONAL/
 	 
h3. Virtual Networks at the EarthScope DMC

A virtual network is a group of stations and/or seismic networks. 

"List of virtual networks":http://www.iris.edu/mda/#vnetlist
 	 
h2(#temp). Temporary Networks and Experimental Data

Temporary networks may include both "passive and active":/ds/nodes/dmc/data/types/time-series-data/ data.

h3. PASSCAL

The Program for the Array Seismic Studies of the Continental Lithosphere (PASSCAL) is another one of the four major componenets of EarthScope. PASSCAL operates a pool of over 400 portable seismic instruments to record active source reflection data, active source refraction data or natural source recordings of earthquakes. 

"Learn more about PASSCAL":http://www.iris.edu/hq/programs/passcal.

h3. Other Sources

EarthScope also has an archive of other temporary deployments from several different sources including:

* United States Geological Survey ("USGS":http://earthquake.usgs.gov/)
* Seismic Equipment InfraStructure in the UK ("SEIS-UK":http://www.le.ac.uk/seis-uk/)
* U.S. National Ocean Bottom Seismograph Instrument Center ("OBSIC":https://obsic.whoi.edu/)

"List of Temporary FDSN Network Codes":http://www.iris.edu/mda/#tnetlist
"Request a temporary FDSN Network Code":http://www.fdsn.org/networks/request/temp/
"Temporary deployment mobilization form":http://www.iris.edu/stations/mob.htm
 	 
h2(#event). Event Catalog Data

EarthScope archives "event data":/ds/nodes/dmc/data/types/events/ produced by various contributors.

h3. National Earthquake Information Center, World Data Center for Seismology, Denver, Colorado

The "NEIC":http://earthquake.usgs.gov/regional/neic/ is responsible for determining, as rapidly and as accurately as possible, the location and size of all destructive earthquakes that occur worldwide; and collecting and providing an extensive seismic database.
	
h3. International Seismological Centre, United Kingdom

The "ISC":http://www.isc.ac.uk/ is a non-governmental organization charged with the final collection, analysis and publication of standard earthquake information from all over the world.