h1. Data Delivery

; "Web Services":http://service.iris.edu/
: This is the base delivery mechanism for most IRIS data.  It can be accessed directly, but a variety of convenient wrappers are available.
; "Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)":http://service.iris.edu/clients/
: APIs are available via "Java":/ds/nodes/dmc/software/downloads/iris-ws/, "Matlab":/ds/nodes/dmc/software/downloads/irisFetch.m/, and "Python":https://seiscode.iris.washington.edu/projects/obspy libraries, as well as command line "fetch scripts":https://seiscode.iris.washington.edu/projects/ws-fetch-scripts.
; "Web Tools":/ds/nodes/dmc/tools/
; "Downloadable Software":/ds/nodes/dmc/software/
; "Other Data Centers":/ds/nodes/dmc/data/other-data-centers/
; "How to Cite Data Sources":http://www.iris.edu/hq/iris_citations

h3. Time Series Data

; Web and Email-based Tools
: "BREQ_FAST":/ds/nodes/dmc/manuals/breq_fast/ takes requests via email and delivers data via FTP/HTTP.
: "SeismiQuery":/SeismiQuery/ provides low-level access to IRIS data via web forms.
: "Wilber3":/wilber3/ offers a rich UI for acquiring data related to a given seismic event.
: See our "full set of web tools":/ds/nodes/dmc/tools/.
; Downloadable Software
: "SAC":/ds/nodes/dmc/software/downloads/sac/ (Seismic Analysis Code) is a general purpose interactive program designed for the study of sequential signals, especially time series data.
: "JWEED":/ds/nodes/dmc/software/downloads/jweed/ is a Java program for requesting data related to events.
: "SEEDLink":/ds/nodes/dmc/services/seedlink/ is a protocol for streaming real-time data.
: See our "full set of software tools":/ds/nodes/dmc/software/.

h3. Metadata

; Web Tools
: "Metadata Aggregator":/mda/ (MDA) provides a browsable list of all networks and stations archived at the DMC.
: "GMap":/gmap/ displays networks on an interactive map.
: "BUD":/data/bud/ provides information on near real-time holdings.
: "New Data":/data/new/ added recently to the DMC archive.

h3. Other Data Types

; Assembled Data
: "Request assembled data":/ds/nodes/dmc/forms/assembled-data/
: "Assembled request status":/ds/nodes/dmc/data/request-status/
; Event Data
: "Interactive Earthquake Browser":/ieb/ (IEB) shows recent earthquakes on an interactive map.

h3. About IRIS Data

"Data delivery statistics":/data/distribution/
