h1. Groups

The DMC currently has four core groups (managers in parentheses):

* "Data Products":#data-products (Chad Trabant)
* "Information Technology":#information-technology (Rob Casey)
* "Operations":#operations (Rick Benson)
* "Web Services":#web-services (Chad Trabant)

h2(#data-products). Data Products

The EarthScope DMC works closely with members of the seismology community to develop, host and distribute a diverse array of data products. In addition to developing our own in-house products, EarthScope funds the development of external data products, which we then make freely available to the community.
"More information &raquo;":/ds/products/

h2(#information-techology). Information Technology

We develop several high-profile downloadable software packages in-house, including "JWEED":/ds/nodes/dmc/software/downloads/jweed and "PDCC":/ds/nodes/dmc/software/downloads/pdcc/. Additionally we develop web-based tools to allow users to explore our data-holdings interactively, including "Wilber":/wilber3/.

* "More information about software &raquo;":/ds/nodes/dmc/software/
* "More information about web-based tools &raquo;":/ds/nodes/dmc/tools/

h2(#operations). Operations

The operations group manages our real-time and archived data, ensuring the quality of all incoming data from networks around the world, assembling data sets for specific experiments, and providing data query results to users from a variety of tools and services. The data they are responsible for are used by all other groups in their products, tools and services.

h2(#web-services). Web Services

To provide programmatic access to our data holdings, the DMC has developed a "series of web-services":/ws/ that allow users to connect to, and download directly, *time-series data* and *metadata* from our data holdings. We also provide several interfaces to directly connect to these web-services using Java and Matlab. We have recently developed equivalent "FDSN":http://service.iris.edu/fdsn services.

* "EarthScope Web Services &raquo;":/ws/
* "FDSN Web Services &raquo;":http://service.iris.edu/fdsnws/