h1. Deprecated Products

The data product that you have tried to access is no longer supported by the EarthScope DMC. Information about these legacy products are listed below.

h2(#spyder). System to Provide You Data from Earthquakes Rapidly (SPYDER)

SPYDER data was event-oriented data products created shortly after an earthquake occurred. The data was unchecked and was considered to be of unknown quality. The data came from a variety of sources, primarily from the EarthScope DMC’s BUD system However, autoDRMs around the world and direct station dial-up augmented the data in SPYDER.

<notextile><div class="alert alert-info">SPYDER was deprecated in Spring 2014.</div></notextile>

h4. Learn more about SPYDER

* "The State of SPYDER":/ds/newsletter/vol5/no2/the-state-of-spyder/
* "SPYDER - Near-real-time Seismic Data":/ds/newsletter/vol2/no3/spyder-near-real-time-seismic-data/

h2(#farm). Fast Archive Recovery Method (FARM)

The EarthScope DMC recognized the fact that the most interesting data, and most frequently requested, are data from earthquakes. Most of these interesting events are larger than a magnitude of M5.5. For this reason, the EarthScope DMC routinely pre-assembled data from earthquakes that were larger than 5.7, unless the event depth was greater than 100 km, in which case we included those down to M5.5. Although EarthScope' mission is to protect the entire archive of continuous data, event-related data holdings are the most valuable and frequently accessed.

An initiative was put forth in the Summer of 2000 to rebuild the FARM system. The problems that plagued the FARM were an out-of-date or incomplete accounting of station data, old or incorrect metadata headers, and data restricted to GSN stations. The goal was a system that could more easily be updated as station data became available from many networks, and where updates in station metadata would not require time-consuming rebuilds of thousands of SEED files. The result was a design called @POND@, which is an acronym for @Pool Of Network Data@. The scheme would involve breaking the @FARM@ data into pieces, each of which could be easily modified or appended to as needed. (One @POND@ holds all the data for one seismic network.)

"Learn more about POND":/ds/newsletter/vol3/no1/pond-and-wilber-ii-transition-to-a-more-dynamic-event-dataset/.

Accessing FARM data was done in two ways:

# "Wilber 3":/wilber3 – a Web interface for browsing and requesting event related data. Wilber3 allows you to group networks together into one file or several files, depending on your chosen output format. This is by far the preferred method for requesting FARM (and SPYDER®) data.
# "FTP":/pub – users can download miniSEED files directly from the network PONDs but they will have to get the dataless SEED volumes that go with these data only files. "Learn more about getting dataless SEED":/ds/nodes/dmc/data/formats/#dataless-seed.

The POND structure is as follows:

pre. /<year>/<month>/<event_date.farm>/<network_code>/miniSEED.<network_code>

The miniSEED file in each network folder contains all the data for all the stations in that network that returned data for that event. "Learn more about miniSEED":/ds/nodes/dmc/data/formats/#miniseed.

<notextile><div class="alert alert-info">The <code>FARM</code> was taken offline in Spring 2014.</div></notextile>

h2(#uvfarm). UV FARM

The @UV FARM@ was an online data repository for the *Ultra Long and Very Long period seismic data*. Because of their low sample rates and small data volume, we preferred to service requests for these data from our "Wilber3":/wilber3/ interface, and bypass the need to recall these from our near-line, tape-based mass storage filesystem.

What you found in the UV FARM are month-long "miniSEED":/ds/nodes/dmc/data/formats/#miniseed volumes, delimited by the networks which contributed them. Because these data are managed by the typical FARM algorithms, you were assured that the data were up to date, as they were consistently modified if new or replacement data came online.

As a data user, you had the ability to request any, or all, reporting channels that were collected for the time period of interest. One important difference in the interface for requesting UV FARM data from the typical, event-based FARM data, is that we did not provide the mechanisms to time window these holdings below the one month time span. You had the ability to pull data back from these holdings in the same number of data formats, including miniSEED, fullSEED, and SAC.

The EarthScope DMC began building the UV FARM in the summer of 2002, and we were able to provide data back to June, 1975. This project continued until we got to one month behind real time, then each month we will automatically make the most current data available in a rolling time window.

<notextile><div class="alert alert-info">The <code>UV FARM</code> was taken offline in Spring 2014.</div></notextile>

h2(#nukefarm). NUKE FARM

<notextile><div class="alert alert-info">To be updated</div></notextile>